blog/EEG_fMRI.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: EEG recording to fMRI volume
parent: Blog
nav_order: 1
mathjax: true
tags: 
  - latex
  - math
---


# EEG recoding to fMRI volume

In this post I will go over the procedure to project an EEG instance to an fMRI.

In the [EEG to fMRI paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03481), the methodology to do this projection is presented. The architecture of this model is shown in the Figure below.

<p align="center">
	<img src="./figures/architecture_eeg_benefits.png" width="200"/>
</p>

This model processes two inputs:
- EEG representation $$\vec{x} \in \mathbb{R}^{C \times F \times T}$$;
- fMRI volume representation $$\vec{y} \in \mathbb{R}^{M_1 \times M_2 \times M_3}$$.

The EEG has a drift in relation to the associated fMRI volume, since it takes into consideration $$10\times \mbox{TR}$$ seconds in total (for the [NODDI](https://osf.io/94c5t/) dataset this corresponds to $$10\times 2.160=21.6$$ seconds). In addition, the EEG has $$C$$ channels and $$F$$ frequency coefficients. The figure below shows a representation of an EEG.

<p align="center">
	<img src="./figures/eeg_stft.png" width="200"/>
</p>

On the other hand, we have a **single** fMRI volume associated with the respective EEG. This fMRI is described by three dimensions, corresponding to the 3-dimensional axis, where $$M_1=64$$, $$M_2=64$$ and $$M_3=30$$. The figure below shows an fMRI volume.

<p align="center">
	<img src="./figures/fmri_volume.png" width="600"/>
</p>

In terms of code this corresponds to loading the data. First we start by import the necessary libraries:

```
import tensorflow as tf
import numpy as np
from utils import tf_config

dataset="01"
memory_limit=1500
tf_config.set_seed(seed=2)
tf_config.setup_tensorflow(device="GPU", memory_limit=memory_limit)

import GPyOpt
import argparse
from utils import preprocess_data, train, losses_utils, metrics, eeg_utils, data_utils
from models import eeg_to_fmri
from pathlib import Path
```

Then we specify the number of individuals and $$T$$ (which corresponds to ```interval_eeg```), and load the data:

```
n_individuals=getattr(data_utils, "n_individuals_"+dataset)
interval_eeg=10

with tf.device('/CPU:0'):
	train_data, test_data = preprocess_data.dataset(dataset, n_individuals=n_individuals,
											interval_eeg=interval_eeg, 
											ind_volume_fit=False,
											standardize_fmri=True,
											iqr=False,
											verbose=True)
	eeg_train, fmri_train =train_data
	eeg_test, fmri_test = test_data
print(eeg_train.shape, fmri_train.shape)
print(eeg_test.shape, fmri_test.shape)
```

```
<<< (64,134,10,1) (64,64,30,1)
<<< (64,134,10,1) (64,64,30,1)
```

After this we can start building the model presented in the first figure. To do this, we first unroll the hyperparameters for the neural network: learning rate, weight decay, etc:

```
learning_rate,weight_decay ,kernel_size ,stride_size ,batch_size,latent_dimension,n_channels,max_pool,batch_norm,skip_connections,dropout,n_stacks,outfilter,local=eeg_to_fmri.parameters
```

Additionally, we also load the architecture specification:

```
with open(str(Path.home())+"/eeg_to_fmri/na_models_eeg/na_specification_2", "rb") as f:
	na_specification_eeg = pickle.load(f)
with open(str(Path.home())+"/eeg_to_fmri/na_models_fmri/na_specification_2", "rb") as f:
	na_specification_fmri = pickle.load(f)
```

With these parameters, we can finally build the model and setup the optimizer, loss, training set and test set:

```
with tf.device('/CPU:0'):
	model = eeg_to_fmri.EEG_to_fMRI(latent_dimension, eeg_train.shape[1:], na_specification_eeg, n_channels,
						weight_decay=weight_decay, skip_connections=True, batch_norm=True, fourier_features=True,
						random_fourier=True, topographical_attention=True, conditional_attention_style=True,
						conditional_attention_style_prior=False, local=True, seed=None, 
						fmri_args = (latent_dimension, fmri_train.shape[1:], kernel_size, stride_size, n_channels, 
						max_pool, batch_norm, weight_decay, skip_connections,
						n_stacks, True, False, outfilter, dropout, None, False, na_specification_fmri))
	model.build(eeg_train.shape, fmri_train.shape)
	optimizer = tf.keras.optimizers.Adam(learning_rate)
	loss_fn = losses_utils.mae_cosine
	train_set = tf.data.Dataset.from_tensor_slices((eeg_train, fmri_train)).batch(batch_size)
	test_set= tf.data.Dataset.from_tensor_slices((eeg_test, fmri_test)).batch(1)
```

Finally, comes the fun part, where the model is trained with the objective of producing an fMRI volume similar to the one paired with the given EEG:

```
train.train(train_set, model, optimizer, loss_fn, epochs=10, u_architecture=True, val_set=None, verbose=True, verbose_batch=True)
```

The output in my machine corresponds to:

```
<<<
```

Commit message:

python code blocks and the print message

blog/EEG_fMRI.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: EEG recording to fMRI volume
parent: Blog
nav_order: 1
mathjax: true
tags: 
  - latex
  - math
---


# EEG recoding to fMRI volume

In this post I will go over the procedure to project an EEG instance to an fMRI.

In the [EEG to fMRI paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03481), the methodology to do this projection is presented. The architecture of this model is shown in the figure below.

<p align="center">
	<img src="./figures/architecture_eeg_benefits.png" width="200"/>
</p>

This model processes two inputs:
- EEG representation $$\vec{x} \in \mathbb{R}^{C \times F \times T}$$;
- fMRI volume representation $$\vec{y} \in \mathbb{R}^{M_1 \times M_2 \times M_3}$$.

The EEG has a drift in relation to the associated fMRI volume, since it takes into consideration $$10\times \mbox{TR}$$ seconds in total (for the [NODDI](https://osf.io/94c5t/) dataset this corresponds to $$10\times 2.160=21.6$$ seconds). In addition, the EEG has $$C$$ channels and $$F$$ frequency coefficients. The figure below shows a representation of an EEG.

<p align="center">
	<img src="./figures/eeg_stft.png" width="200"/>
</p>

On the other hand, we have a **single** fMRI volume associated with the respective EEG. This fMRI is described by three dimensions, corresponding to the 3-dimensional axis, where $$M_1=64$$, $$M_2=64$$ and $$M_3=30$$. The figure below shows an fMRI volume.

<p align="center">
	<img src="./figures/fmri_volume.png" width="600"/>
</p>

In terms of code this corresponds to loading the data. First we start by import the necessary libraries:

```python
import tensorflow as tf
import numpy as np
from utils import tf_config

dataset="01"
memory_limit=1500
tf_config.set_seed(seed=2)
tf_config.setup_tensorflow(device="GPU", memory_limit=memory_limit)

import GPyOpt
import argparse
from utils import preprocess_data, train, losses_utils, metrics, eeg_utils, data_utils
from models import eeg_to_fmri
from pathlib import Path
```

Then we specify the number of individuals and $$T$$ (which corresponds to ```interval_eeg```), and load the data:

```python
n_individuals=getattr(data_utils, "n_individuals_"+dataset)
interval_eeg=10

with tf.device('/CPU:0'):
	train_data, test_data = preprocess_data.dataset(dataset, n_individuals=n_individuals,
											interval_eeg=interval_eeg, 
											ind_volume_fit=False,
											standardize_fmri=True,
											iqr=False,
											verbose=True)
	eeg_train, fmri_train =train_data
	eeg_test, fmri_test = test_data
print(eeg_train.shape, fmri_train.shape)
print(eeg_test.shape, fmri_test.shape)
```
The print output corresponds to:
```
<<< (64,134,10,1) (64,64,30,1)
<<< (64,134,10,1) (64,64,30,1)
```

After this we can start building the model presented in the first figure. To do this, we first unroll the hyperparameters for the neural network: learning rate, weight decay, etc:

```python
learning_rate,weight_decay ,kernel_size ,stride_size ,batch_size,latent_dimension,n_channels,max_pool,batch_norm,skip_connections,dropout,n_stacks,outfilter,local=eeg_to_fmri.parameters
```

Additionally, we also load the architecture specification:

```python
with open(str(Path.home())+"/eeg_to_fmri/na_models_eeg/na_specification_2", "rb") as f:
	na_specification_eeg = pickle.load(f)
with open(str(Path.home())+"/eeg_to_fmri/na_models_fmri/na_specification_2", "rb") as f:
	na_specification_fmri = pickle.load(f)
```

With these parameters, we can finally build the model and setup the optimizer, loss, training set and test set:

```python
with tf.device('/CPU:0'):
	model = eeg_to_fmri.EEG_to_fMRI(latent_dimension, eeg_train.shape[1:], na_specification_eeg, n_channels,
						weight_decay=weight_decay, skip_connections=True, batch_norm=True, fourier_features=True,
						random_fourier=True, topographical_attention=True, conditional_attention_style=True,
						conditional_attention_style_prior=False, local=True, seed=None, 
						fmri_args = (latent_dimension, fmri_train.shape[1:], kernel_size, stride_size, n_channels, 
						max_pool, batch_norm, weight_decay, skip_connections,
						n_stacks, True, False, outfilter, dropout, None, False, na_specification_fmri))
	model.build(eeg_train.shape, fmri_train.shape)
	optimizer = tf.keras.optimizers.Adam(learning_rate)
	loss_fn = losses_utils.mae_cosine
	train_set = tf.data.Dataset.from_tensor_slices((eeg_train, fmri_train)).batch(batch_size)
	test_set= tf.data.Dataset.from_tensor_slices((eeg_test, fmri_test)).batch(1)
```

Finally, comes the fun part, where the model is trained with the objective of producing an fMRI volume similar to the one paired with the given EEG:

```python
train.train(train_set, model, optimizer, loss_fn, epochs=10, u_architecture=True, val_set=None, verbose=True, verbose_batch=True)
```

The output in my machine corresponds to:

```
<<<
```
